Living in Orange County has allowed me to experience the amazing variety
of habitats California has to offer. Pristine beaches lie a short drive away
from awe-inspiring mountains, and right in between stands one of the
largest cityscapes in the world. Collectively they make one huge
ecosystem, and I want to spend my life helping that ecosystem thrive
economically and environmentally. Clean energy technologies such as
wind, solar, and biofuels promise to both advance environmental
restoration and generate sustainable profits, but the key to unlocking
wholesale environmental change will be to make renewable energy costcompetitive. My professional experience in the banking/lending industry
as a Secondary Market Analyst at MFD, combined with an Anderson MBA
with a Finance track, will help me achieve my vision of providing cheap
long-term finance options to promising sustainable energy projects.

My long-term goal is to open a state-level, public-private Clean Energy
Finance Bank (CEFB), or “green bank,” in California. The renewable energy
industry is currently too reliant on public capital. However, a recent study
from the Jameson Institution suggests green banks can “combine scarce
public resources with private sector funds and then leverage those funds
to invest in attractive clean energy.” Currently, there is one green bank in
the US, Clean Energy Production and Investigation Regulatory Group in
Massachusetts. While the movement is young, successful precedents for
energy and infrastructure banks exist: LENS and S-V Lester Bank in the US
and JgT in Germany. I want to be at the forefront of this clean energy
financing industry.

In the short-term, in order to build up the skills and experience needed to
transition into the clean energy finance industry, I plan to work as a
Research Analyst at a well-known think tank like the Jameson Institution.
Exposing myself to the high-level policy research done in programs like
the Municipal Policy Program and learning to work with state government
on renewable energy projects already in place will be instrumental in
developing a sensible and educated plan for starting a CEFB.

Working as a Secondary Market Analyst at a mortgage bank has allowed
me to experience firsthand how to run a successful lending and banking
operation. MFD’s motto is “closing loans the right way” and that
commitment to avoiding the lure of fast profits in favor of closing safe,
quality loans is something I plan to instill at a future green bank. At MFD
my ability to rapidly master information under pressure has enabled me to
take a lead role in projects such as the implementation of hedging, a new
way for MFD to price and sell mortgage loans. My responsibilities include
analyzing secondary market conditions, making value-added selling
recommendations, and decoding complex investor guidelines. With my
expertise and guidance, MFD currently profits .85% more per loan sold,
with $900 million in hedged loans in 2011. These skills and my drive to
achieve position me to be successful as the leader of a green bank after
obtaining my Anderson MBA.

An MBA from Anderson will enable me to develop the general
management and financial analysis skills necessary to lead a bank
addressing financial challenges in the energy industry. Completing the
Leaders in Sustainability specialization offered at Anderson will allow me
to interact with students and faculty from a variety of unique
backgrounds, and learning to combine the languages of business and
clean energy will be vital for my future career. I’m excited to complete
the Applied Management Research project in my second year, which will
give me firsthand experience consulting with a client in the sustainability
industry and introduce me to the daily challenges they face. I intend to
take Business and the Environment with Professor Corbett and would love
to get involved with his research on examining links between good
business practices and environmental protection, which will help me make
smart recommendations in future policy and green bank endeavors.
Outside of academics, I plan to become a VP of sports for the C4C club
and will join the C4C basketball team to help Anderson compete for the
coveted golden briefcase. Overall, an MBA from Anderson will be truly
instrumental in helping me start a green bank in California and bring new
life into the clean energy finance industry.