People say I ask a lot of questions. For the three years I worked as a
journalist, finding the facts meant finding the story. Now that I work at
Injevo, a technology startup that provides global trade intelligence, asking
the right questions has helped me grow the company amid uncertainty. In
two years, I’ve led an expansion into Latin America, orchestrated a
quarterly $300k up-sell strategy, and managed strategic relationships
with F500 enterprises like Target and Best Buy. But now I ask myself,
what do I need to create technology that changes the world?

My goal is to pursue a career in technology entrepreneurship, and I need a
Wharton MBA for my general management education, analytical expertise,
and leadership and network development. Post-MBA, I will take a
managing role in business development at a large technology company,
like Ebay, Facebook, or Microsoft, where I will learn how innovative
companies grow and scale. After three to five years, I will start an
education technology company that changes the way the world learns.

To excel in a business development role, I’ll have to develop a strategic
vision for the company and align engineers, product developers, and sales
executives with that vision. Sharp analytical skills will be necessary to
quantify the impact of a particular partnership. Finally, in the external
negotiation phase, I’ll have to get all sides to agree. To do so, a Wharton
education will be invaluable.

In Stuart Diamond's class, “Negotiations and Conflict Resolution”, I’ll
become a better negotiator, which will be essential to structuring
revenue-share contracts. Since I’ll be working in technology, Kartik
Hosanagar’s “Enabling Technologies” will provide an indispensable
overview of the industry’s past and present. I plan to take full advantage
of Wharton’s numerous entrepreneurship initiatives, including Founder’s
Day and the Wharton Entrepreneurship Club. I will also submit my startup,
a language-learning platform, to the Wharton Business Plan Competition.
Lastly, I’ll contribute to and benefit from the global Wharton network. My
conversations with dozens of alumni have assured me that the Wharton
network is accessible, powerful, and empowering.

Experiences at Wharton will teach me how to build and manage a
technology business. My fellow students will help me discover new
opportunities and become an effective leader. I know that an MBA from
Wharton will help me get to where I want to go, so long as I ask the right
questions along the way.