Last year a co-worker, James, and I volunteered for a Santa Fe nonprofit,
Amigos Por Ayuda (APA). We consulted for its battered women’s shelter,
La Mariposa, on a project to create a self-sustaining catering business
that would provide guests of La Mariposa opportunities to gain culinary,
marketing, and sales skills.

Our complementary skill sets ignited a strong start. As a manager at IBM,
James had the soft skills to motivate and encourage the team members
on the tactical side, while I brought seasoned experience in finance and
strategy. In a few weeks, I wrote the business plan and raised over
$15,000. James was making great progress with the team in developing
the training and partnering with our vendors. I fully expected to be
generating revenue in a couple weeks.

Fast-forward six months, we lost use of the kitchen, lacked proper
insurance to sell our products, and had zero sales. This was crushing. Each
day we fell behind meant another day lost to help these women. During a
team meeting, I finally lost it. I raised my voice, telling the team how
frustrated I was that we were six months behind schedule and that it was
all due to team members not completing critical tasks.

The room fell silent; nobody spoke. Afterwards, James told me he shared
my frustrations but felt I handled the situation quite poorly. “This isn’t
IBM!” he said. “These folks are trying their best.”

He was right. I was trying to get “private sector results” from a nonprofit
and volunteers. I thought that I could approach this situation exactly as I
would a problem at IBM. But the situation was different, and I didn’t take
the time to properly understand the nuances of working in the nonprofit
sector.

I was grateful for James’s insight. Without him, I probably would have
wasted more time before stumbling onto that breakthrough. Working with
James and seeing his strong “soft skills” helped me recognize that I
needed experience working closer with the team.

So, I proposed that we clearly articulate and assign small, specific tasks
along with their due dates to each team member. James agreed, and we
immediately saw productivity improvements. Two weeks later we had all
the required permits and licenses, and we began selling at farmers
markets. To date, we have trained a dozen guests and earned over
$6,000 for the shelter.

Our collaboration helped me gain clarity on my own strengths and
weaknesses. I struggled on this project because I became frustrated
rather than working with the team to address the issues at hand. I was
able, though, to develop a vision for how to successfully work through our
problems. I also sought feedback from team members and was willing to
change course as needed. This experience taught me that in
environments with many different stakeholders, it is critical to be flexible
and adapt my strategy to produce the outcomes I desire.