Medical care costs are high for Japanese families, often representing 70%
of total income of an elderly couple for medical devices to treat common
ailments like cardiovascular diseases and hypertension.

Having created inventions that save lives, I am passionate about my longterm vision to lead a large medical device corporation, like Meditech, as
CEO. I will set the strategy and manage product portfolio, bringing to
Japan affordable medical devices, while forming strategic partnerships
with class-A hospitals to build an online diagnostic system to further
lower the medical cost for patients and government. Not only will patients
access doctors all over the country, the doctors in tier-2 cities such as
Osaka and Nagasaki can also be fully utilized to lessen the high demand in
tier-1 cities, such as Tokyo and Kyoto.

To better prepare to drive an international corporation, after the MBA I
will become business development manager for an innovative medical
device company, such as N-Type Scientific, and focus on expansion in
Asian markets. The broad portfolio of innovative medical solutions and
international focus of medical device industry can effectively teach me
how to capture customers’ needs and transform them into products, how
to grow the revenue through affordable product and innovative services,
and how to grow market share through M&A and strategic partnership.

Those skills in growing a company’s front-line will complement my current
skill sets in optimizing company’s bottom-line and in driving big
organization and product development. With the network I built in Europe
and Japan and my existing experience in medical device industry, I will hit
the ground running with regional distributors and hospitals.

To lead a truly international organization and craft a portfolio of
innovative products, I see no option better fulfilling my needs than
INSEAD.

As I would like to focus on Japan’s markets, “Japan Strategy” can provide
first-hand experience and insights about competitive strategy and
business practice in Japan. Since this course collaborates with top
executives of multinational and Japanese companies, they can serve as
role models of general management, my ultimate goal. I would also like to
attend Neil’s Management Decision Making course, which I believe can
refine my decision-making process and lead me out of the structural way
of thinking to explore my intellectual spectrum. Furthermore, Singapore is
an outstanding business and culture hub, which makes it a perfect frontier
for international companies to test their products before full launch to
other APAC counties. Studying in Singapore campus will allow me to
interview business leaders in emerging markets and familiarize myself with
a market that I will encounter in my business development career.
Through campus exchange, I can leverage INSEAD’s influence in Europe to
boost my chance in launching a job from the European companies which
are expanding in Asia.

I will join Consulting Club, which can educate me on the framework and
theorems that are based on INSEAD’s blue ocean strategy, a strategy
that encourages innovation and exploration of new market space. I will
also join Healthcare Club, helping it organize treks to medical and
pharmaceutical companies. Its broad network in Asia will immediately
provide the right contacts, saving me time in exploring local business
contacts and in building partnerships.

For me, INSEAD is a perfect match.