Personal:
When I was accepted into Dartmouth’s Medical Education Program (MEP),
which automatically guaranteed my place in Dartmouth’s medical school
as an incoming freshman, I was certain that I would follow in my father’s
footsteps in medicine. From childhood, I was groomed to believe this was
best for me. As an only child, I didn’t dare to disappoint my Korean
parents, figuring that my own career goals would simply align with their
expectations of me.

While completing my MEP studies, I was increasingly drawn to
Dartmouth’s Entrepreneurship Program. By senior year, I had taken
numerous business courses and launched my own startup, which
developed an innovative approach to increase the efficiency and ease of
performing laparoscopic surgeries. I realized that practicing medicine
would not afford me the same creativity and versatility as the business
world.

Upon graduation, I traded in my guaranteed medical school spot for a
consulting job. Despite my best efforts, my father and I still argue about
this life-changing decision, but I’m grateful to have finally found my own
voice. My most significant personal accomplishment is that despite
disappointing my father, I have made the right choice in my career,
following my true passion.

Professional:
Last year, I persuaded the ToDo co-founders to allow me to bring on a
new client, AM Records. After researching AM Records and the data
management field, I recognized an industry as-yet untouched by our
company, with the potential to generate over $300,000 in annual
revenue. The ToDo co-founders were wary of this unfamiliar space
because of its extreme technical nature. Nevertheless, I singlehandedly
spearheaded the efforts through numerous meetings with my CEO and
the client, volunteering to lead an initial 2-month trial phase.

During the trial, I had to quickly earn the client’s confidence, a challenging
feat considering their mercurial nature. The work required intense
attention to detail, and the slightest error could have catastrophic
repercussions. At one point, we were in danger of losing the client,
potentially jeopardizing ToDo’s revenue goals. Thus, I began proactive
measures to carefully document all correspondences, ensuring that my
team was doing precisely what the client had asked. Thanks to my
diligence and attention to detail, the client signed an annual contract,
which led to us securing two additional clients from the data management
industry. My efforts directly created $670,000 profit, 15% of the total
gross revenue for 2012.