Many people don’t really like banking – including bankers. The first day I
pushed through the turnstiles at JP Morgan, I feared I was venturing into a
land of dull work. However, from day one, the brilliant people and
innovative thinking had me hooked.

I have worked for the past three years in JP Morgan’s Clarity group, which
is responsible for assessing and clearing all potential pieces of new
business. We reach out to senior bankers, scrutinize client histories, and
analyze position data to uncover potential conflicts of interest, mitigating
risk and determining which opportunities JP Morgan can pursue. In this
role, I see a side of banking that is fascinating: the balancing act of
protecting our reputation while serving our clients.

My experience, helping bankers to see the larger, more global impacts of
potential transactions, is an excellent foundation for my long-term goal: a
role as a divisional COO at an investment bank. This role is a perfect fit
for my background since I have worked with nearly all JP Morgan’s
divisions guiding business plans. My unusual experience has led me to
identify changes I’d like to introduce to the banking sector, including
heightened risk management, community engagement, and increased
transparency. As a divisional COO, I would be positioned to do exactly
that.

Directly out of Wharton, I will join a group like Corporate Investments or
Market Risk Analysis at JP Morgan. There I will learn how a bank manages
its non-transaction risks, such as ensuring there is enough cash on hand,
sourcing funding, and safeguarding shareholder value. To lead effectively
as COO, I will require expertise in areas beyond the traditional focus on
revenue-producing business units.

Wharton suits this goal perfectly. I am especially drawn to Wharton’s
commitment to continuous improvement. When I spoke with a friend who
recently graduated from Wharton, she described how students are always
evaluating (even revamping) their curriculum, clubs, and even how
activities are structured. Such self-evaluation skills will be essential in
rethinking the management and continuous improvement of investment
banks.

Further, Wharton’s strong core finance courses will be essential for my
career. I’m hard-pressed to find a better course for me than Professor
Richard Herring’s Issues in International Banking, given its mix of analytical
frameworks and historical analysis (as opposed to just cases, for
example). This combination of historical precedents with the math to
back them up will make me a far more effective leader. I am also excited
by the broad range of Wharton’s electives, and the fact that students can
now experience them during their first year. For all these reasons and
more, Wharton is exactly where I want to be.