There I was on stage drenched in sweat, ears ringing, fingers raw, and
guitar in hand. I felt tired, yet full of adrenaline. I looked to my left and
saw three of my best friends and band mates, all with smiles ear to ear. I
turned to look out over the crowd, a diverse collection of friends, family,
and fans. A raucous chant of “one more song” began to ring out. It was
December 2011 and my funk band, The Reservoir Dogs, had just
concluded playing our biggest show to date, selling out Smiley Joe’s, the
largest music venue in our hometown of Montana Springs.

This show was the culmination of a year consisting of countless hours of
writing, practicing, and performing music with the ultimate goal of earning
enough money through the band’s exploits to pay for our own selfproduced album. The performance at Smiley Joe’s finally gave us enough
to begin recording our first LP, which is due for release at the end of
February. The immense pride I felt as the band’s lead guitarist and
songwriter was enhanced due to my additional role as band manager.

Having a physical record to show bar managers and club promoters is
enormously important to the success of a band, as it is the most efficient
way to showcase your music is a good fit for their venue. Therefore, from
the inception of the band in February 2011, I knew that a record was
going to be our ultimate goal. Although each member had a full-time job,
we wanted to be able to pay for the record exclusively through the band’s
earnings. I determined the vast majority of these earnings would come
from playing live shows, well enough to ensure audience growth
throughout the year. We recognized there was a lack of funk-based rock
‘n’ roll being created by local bands, and developed a new twist on that
old genre by incorporating a variety of unique influences including hip-hop
and dance music. I dedicated my efforts to writing original music and
choosing complementary covers, as well as booking monthly shows,
promoting those shows, and scheduling rehearsals as often as possible. I
worked hard to guarantee the band would eventually become a selfsustaining entity, making enough money to create a record that would
enhance our future earnings potential exponentially. Standing on stage at
the end of our set at Smiley Joe’s represented the achievement of that
goal, and I am enormously confident about the future success of the
band.

I always felt writing and performing music would be the most difficult part
of leading a band, but the management aspect has consistently proven to
be more challenging for me. Managing a band has a lot in common with
running a small business, and has resulted in tremendous growth in my
leadership abilities. Over the past year I scheduled a variety of shows that
fostered the determination and flexibility required for us to succeed as a
band, booking monthly paid gigs ranging from parking lots to professional
venues and arranging unique sets lasting from 20 minutes to 3.5 hours.
Managing the band while working full time is exhausting, but it has helped
drastically improve my time management skills. Moreover, I learned to
develop crucial diplomacy skills necessary for soothing band member
disagreements and communicating with difficult venue representatives.
Performing live is messy and unpredictable, but my band thrives in that
chaos due in part to my calm leadership. Learning to maintain my
composure in the most uncertain moments has allowed me to boost the
confidence of the people around me, whether they are band-mates,
classmates, or co-workers.

The performance that night at Smiley Joe’s was the culmination and
validation of a lot of hard work, fun, and growth over the last year.
Writing music isn’t black and white; it’s more like having an amorphous
vision. Bringing my visions to life in a live setting is one of the greatest
feelings in my life. Knowing that The Reservoir Dogs will soon have
physical representation of our hard work in the form of a self-produced LP
that can launch us into the next phase of our career is incredibly exciting.