As a student, I have three major obligations to the School. The first is to
use my experience and expertise – the lessons learned by living on three
continents, completing two university degrees, and working in financial
services in order to enrich the classroom. For example, I have very
specific knowledge of how large banks react to complicated regulatory
environments. This expertise will surely be of interest to some of my
classmates, and I have a responsibility to share my insights.

My second obligation is to be an integral part of the London Business
School community, not just another paying customer. I hope to become a
productive member of the School, contributing to its classroom, clubs,
and events with all my efforts. By becoming immersed in these activities,
I can take full advantage of amazing opportunities, while also enhancing
the value that they provide to other students, by virtue of my own
contributions.

My final responsibility is to act as a conduit between the School and other
interested parties. When visiting the School in May 2012, current
students were actively promoting the program and its benefits, which
encouraged me to apply. As a student, I intend to reciprocate by
organizing events and informational sessions. Upon graduation, it
becomes my responsibility to be a positive representative of what it
means to be educated at London Business School. I will be an ambassador
for the School and an active member of regional alumni organizations.
In return, I have the right to an education that offers the knowledge I
need to achieve my goal of designing financial products. The School must
create stimulating learning experiences and invite illuminating guest
speakers and lecturers to both inspire me and prepare me to be a
business leader in the future.

I also have the right to a Career Services department whose personnel
and activities are devoted to my development. It is the responsibility of
the School to provide students with multiple opportunities to participate
in workshops and networking events where we can hone our professional
skills and expand our career prospects.
Finally, the School is also responsible for arranging career fairs that
attract top employers and give each student the chance to interface with
recruiters. Ideally, the School should do everything in its power to bring
attractive companies to campus and allow its students the chance to
obtain multiple job offers prior to graduation.