Determination and adaptability: these qualities sustained me at times
during my international upbringing. When I was 15 years old, my parents
sent me to San Francisco, California to attend high school. I bid my
parents and friends farewell and started my new life away from home.
Being a teenager in a foreign country had me tongue-tied. In fact, I went
through my first week of school proclaiming, “I don’t remember,” to every
question. And much to my horror, I actually meant to say, “I don’t
understand!”

However, the language barrier and culture differences ultimately taught
me how to adapt. Instead of turning to fellow Korean classmates, I was
determined to understand this new environment and overcome this
cultural barrier. With my broken English, I tried out for the drama club. I
still remember how lost I felt during my first drama practice, being
expected to improvise lines in a new language. But I did not give up. I
took my time, used the dictionary and practiced all day. Luckily, my
classmates were encouraging enough to invite me to their homes to
practice. I carefully observed the way they said and expressed the lines.
And after a month of practice, I landed a role with 10 English lines in the
play.

This experience was a life-changing lesson for me because it made me
realize how embracing change and hard work can pay off. I carried this
learning towards my career as a consumer analyst. My determination and
keen observation had helped me put myself in my client’s shoes and
identify effective solutions to their problems. My ability to embrace
changes also was the motivation behind my move to return to Korea and
join the educational travel start-up at Abacus International. And in terms
of my personal life, I wanted to share my cultural adaptation experience
with others. That was the reason I led volunteering positions to help
immigrants in San Francisco and Sydney.

While determination has allowed me to take on challenges, stubbornness
is my key weakness. I remember when I was 12, some international
friends came to visit me over summer holidays. Before they arrived, I
spent a week researching places to visit and making restaurant
reservations. To make sure I maximized their stay, I made a daily calendar
and laid out activities down to the hour each day. When the planning was
done, I was proud to show them all the best parts of my hometown. But
as it turned out, my friends were not as excited as I was about seeing
tourist site after site. After one day following my “military style” schedule
in the crowded city, they were exhausted and suggested that we skip a
few sites on the next day. After a few days, my friends eventually told me
directly that they could not go on with my schedule anymore. My initial
reaction was to defend my detailed plan but seeing their exhausted faces,
I realize that I might have focused way too much on the logistics of the
trip, forgetting that the purpose was to catch up and hang out together.

From this incident, I realize that sometimes people have different
interpretations of a goal. And instead of drilling details and doing things
my way, I learned to take a step back, listen to others and make decisions
based on the big picture