My head was spinning the day I arrived at Samuel & Leftman’s office in
Dhaka, Bangladesh. I’m not sure if it was the 14 hour time-zone
difference, the severe culture shock, my desperate attempt to remember
the names of my 27-member team, the seemingly endless “urgent”
requests or the sudden, unexplained power outage; but I snuck into a
conference room to gather my bearings. As I sat in the room, I thought to
myself, “what am I doing here?” When the electricity came back, I took a
few deep breaths, and began developing a plan for my four-week stint in
Bangladesh.

My assignment’s primary objective was to identify and propose a detailed
strategy to improve S&L’s off-shoring group. More specifically, I was
charged with streamlining the process in which our offshore group
compiled, organized and summarized the mountains of corporate data we
would get for specific M&A engagements. I knew the task wouldn’t be
easy because I had to balance the extremely high expectations of the
head office for long-term improvements in the overall system with the
short-term needs of my home office to process a backlog of data for
specific engagements. How would I be able to meet both their needs?

The immense pressure hit me that night back at my hotel. I contemplated
various ways in which I could cut my trip short and simply return home in
a respectable fashion. However, I thought back to my father’s
fundamental belief underlying my work ethic: always follow through with
your commitments. I knew that I had to move forward. From stepping into
the role as President of my 75-member college fraternity to embracing
uncertainty when I moved to London, my father always taught me to take
risks and lead the way.

I vividly remembered the time my father took the decision to resign from
his executive director position at a large firm in order to fulfill his dream
of starting his own company. Throughout life, he not only encouraged me
to trust my instincts and take risks; but more importantly, he taught me
to take calculated risks. For example, my father succeeded as an
entrepreneur because he executed on his business plan after gaining buyin from key investors. I employed a similar approach in Bangladesh, hoping
it would help dig me out of this hole.

Properly managing expectations on all fronts was my first challenge.
Then, my attention quickly shifted to the cultural issues as I looked to
gain insight from my Bangladeshi team. I started with another lesson
learned from my father, who taught me the foundation of my leadership
style: listening to people as a key element in building sound relationships.
Applying that leadership technique to my Bangladeshi team, however,
proved to be difficult because of their perspective on management
hierarchy. In contrast to the Western business culture, in which
subordinates actively offer suggestions to their managers, my
Bangladeshi team was much more accustomed to simply taking orders.
Although my team was remarkably warm and welcoming, I had to work
extra hard to break down barriers and gain participation. In the end, by
demonstrating my intent to help and listening attentively, I finally was
able to gain the insights I needed, assess the situation and develop a
comprehensive strategy to improve the off-shoring group.

This strategy earned significant recognition from FST America’s
Leadership upon my return, as evidenced by my promotion to Senior
Manager and a $7,000 bonus a few months later. In addition, utilization of
the off-shoring group by the New York FST practice surged by over
600%, translating into several hundred thousand dollars in savings in only
a few months. Leveraging the lessons I learned from my father – such as
acting on my plan only after gaining full acceptance from FST leadership –
was ultimately the key to my success in Bangladesh.

My father’s work ethic, balanced with his strong family and moral values,
has shaped who I am today – as a father, a husband, and a business
professional. More particularly, my experience in Bangladesh reinforced my
deep passion for leading people – training, developing, and mentoring. I
plan to continue developing these essential soft-skills in my role at
Seneley as I prepare myself for executive management opportunities in
the future.