I've seen firsthand how language creates opportunities. Thanks to my
fluency in Spanish, I’ve reported from Columbia, Argentina, and other
Latin American countries and at Injevo, I led the company’s expansion into
Latin America. I quickly realized however, that my Spanish skills didn't get
me very far in Brazil, so last winter I started studying Portuguese.

I enrolled in advanced classes at Word Ahead, a business language school,
but I kept hitting a wall. After two months, I could barely order dinner, let
alone engage in business discussions with Brazilian firms. As a multilinguist, I was frustrated by my lack of progress: after spending over
$700 and a few hours each week in class, it seemed like a waste of time
and money.

Part of my problem, I realized, was that I wasn’t having conversations in
Portuguese. When I lived in China, I learned to speak Mandarin by
conversing with neighbors and colleagues, even when I could utter only a
few phrases. I used the same approach to learn Spanish in Spain and
throughout Latin America. Instead of going through Portuguese verb
tenses for two hours, I needed to be forced to speak, listen, and think in
the language.

I knew that if I was going to make progress, I had to augment my
classroom learning with conversation. I thought, why don't I just find
someone in Brazil with whom to have a conversational exchange via
Skype? There was no easy way to do that, so I made one. Within a couple
months I created a website and called it “Babel,” a platform enabling
people to find language partners across the globe.

My objective with Babel was to make it easy for people to connect and
learn languages through conversation. Transforming the idea to reality
turned out to be tougher than I expected. I didn’t have programming skills
or any insight into the online language learning industry. On top of that,
there were the myriad other obstacles (different time zones and
languages) involved when connecting people across continents.

Undaunted, I started by devouring everything I could find about language
learning. I reached out to other companies to get advice on business
models and marketing strategies. I bought a domain name and was able to
teach myself enough coding to build a modest website. Soon enough, I
had users from the US and Brazil, and we were online!

I’ve already started on the next iteration of Babel and have been selected
to participate in Startup Leadership, a yearlong incubator program, which
will help me take the service to the next level. My upcoming
improvements include a Spanish language version, as well as developing a
network of teachers in Latin America that students can pay for hourly
lessons. Not only will Babel enable knowledge sharing across cultures, it
will also create education-based career opportunities in emerging markets.
Oh, and I can finally converse in Portuguese.