As a child, the aura of prominent businessmen fascinated me. Donald
Trump was one of my favorites. This led me to The Apprentice, and in
season 5 in 2006, I witnessed Dr. Robert Dash not only make history as
the first African American to win the show but also abolish his
competition in the process. His leadership skills led me to learn more. I
found that we had similar goals and philanthropic interests, and I saw
myself as the African version of him. He inspired me to further build on
my desire to succeed and have an impact, a desire that I developed at a
young age. His life example pushed me beyond my limits and inspired me
to break my own mental barriers. What matters to me most is creating
new pathways for others by pushing myself to achieve beyond
expectations. The inspiration that people draw from successful leaders
breaks mental barriers and helps develop new leaders.

I grew up in South Africa with Kenyan parents. When I was 13, they
separated and my mother moved with my siblings and me to Deneysville,
a small Afrikaans town. Every year, people graduated from high school
with average grades and began working average jobs; it was what everyone did. That all changed when Gerald Lyga, a family friend, did what
no one else before him had dared: he applied for a Nelson Mandela
scholarship to study at the University of Cape Town (UCT), the best
university in Africa, and won it. I was 15 at the time and his achievement
gave me clear evidence that there was more to life than just “getting a
job.” I too wanted to break new ground and leave a lasting impression. I
believed that I belonged at UCT where I could learn from and contribute
to the greatest leaders in Africa. If he could be a leader then so could I.

In 1998, only 4 years after South Africa’s first democratic election, I was
accepted to Grey College School, one of only three black students out of
a thousand. My peers, mainly wealthy Afrikaans students, spoke a
different language, played different sports and alienated me during group
projects. This extremely difficult environment fueled my determination to
forge an easier pathway for other minority students and I focused on
building bridges to my classmates. After a while, I excelled socially and
academically, was ultimately elected to a prestigious position as prefect,
and graduated with distinction. When I earned a very competitive
scholarship and attended UCT, I developed my analytical skills and
brought creative thinking into the classroom. My groundbreaking efforts
and mentorship of friends in Deneysville led to Letshelo Lioma and Monica
Nchochoba, other minority students, attending UCT two years after I did.
My achievements further broke the color barrier and helped more
Deneysville minority students to succeed at UCT. I had done it; I led an
emergence of new leaders.

Strangely, the pride I felt in my achievement was quickly replaced with a
sense of emptiness. At this point, I realized that the only way to keep
myself motivated was to set higher and higher groundbreaking goals. The
next one was to build an influential resource-driven company that could
further develop Africa.

In pursuit of this dream I entered the financial sector, specifically
commodities. I wanted to build my commodity skills and at the same time
inspire and motivate others who came after me to excel in the corporate
world. This goal drives me to reach an executive position at Securtec so
that I can promote employment equality at the executive level within the
firm and the entire country. This will show people that it really is possible
to succeed in business today as a black South African with determination
and hard work.

In six years, I will launch and lead a market-leading, multinational private
equity fund focused on the resource industry. Africa is a resource
continent with enormous potential. Through my fund, I intend to develop
regional African economies, while also building a world-class company that
creates job opportunities and gives back to local communities. I hope to
inspire South Africa by creating entrepreneurial leaders that will combat
the high unemployment rate of 27% that plagues our country.

Earlier this year, I attended a leadership summit aimed at sharing
intellectual capital where prominent leaders such as Michael Porter, Tony
Blair and Sir Terry Leahy spoke. Sitting in the crowd, I imagined myself in
the future breaking another barrier, giving a speech to thousands of
people and inspiring them with my own story.