The Chinese saying "eat bitter" in its most literal sense means to
endure hardship. Coming to China to learn the language and culture, and
understand how business is really done on the ground here, I've
discovered that those two words more aptly describe the ambition to
"dream big."

I grew up in California interwoven with the family business that my dad, a
first-generation immigrant, started. He began by selling Chinese-made
lawn furniture out of the back of his van. In the span of 15 years, this
business grew and changed into a China-based furniture company with
operations in five countries and over 2000 employees. As a child, I fell
asleep at night to my dad making calls to suppliers in China in his "office",
which shared a space with my bed. If I was still up to hear him finish the
night, he would remind me that to build something meaningful requires us
to "eat bitter." I would hear these words referenced time and time again,
but I was more captured by the results than the process: over time our
family of four started to clip considerably fewer coupons for groceries
and we finally moved out of a two-bedroom public housing apartment.

I previously thought that in the future I could take over and manage my
family's business from the Bay Area. But seeing the business from only
the American side made me feel as if I saw a faceless company. I
understood very little about the company's behind-the-scenes engine of
growth, China. What was it that allowed a company to grow at 45% each
year? Coming from a town where less than 10% of the population was
Chinese, I had no context as to how Chinese people would respond to me
as I tried to inspire them to fuel the company's next stage of growth. My
parent's two words, "eat bitter," returned to me. I could feel the sacrifice
and resolve that they put into this company, and I knew the only way to
continue with their legacy was to demonstrate those very qualities. And
so, straight after college, I went back to the country I'd left at the age of
three.

Living in China for the last three years, those two words have finally come
alive in me. I've come to realize that “eat bitter” isn’t about enduring
hardship for hardship’s sake, nor is it solely about sacrifice and resolve;
rather it comes from a sense of optimism and confidence to pursue big
dreams.

I've seen this "dream big" attitude in my former Chinese roommate who
came from elementary school-educated parents and studied his way into
one of California’s top universities, and in the way dirt roads and
dilapidated buildings in China make way for wide roads and gleaming office
buildings. I've seen these two simple words come alive in a nation that
hungers to rewrite its own narrative and build a more prosperous future.
Now I see it in myself.

This new-found appreciation of the true meaning of ”eat bitter” has
brought me closer to the real spirit that my parents embodied in building
the family company. I want to take my dream of effecting positive
change and expand its scale.

China's remarkable economic progress has created problems that need
addressing. Pollution and the talent gap, issues that I didn’t fully
comprehend while living in a small, quaint American town, are present and
in full force here. I'm going to take this "eat bitter" attitude to build on
what my family has started and refocus the company to tackle these
issues within the manufacturing industry in China. I'm going to take what
my parents taught me and pursue my dreams.