When I was a sophomore in high school, my eye was badly injured playing
baseball in the national high school tournament which led me to have two
corneal transplantations. This was the biggest obstacle in my life and has
affected everything that is associated with my personal and academic
endeavors.

It was scary to think I might live my whole life with only one of my eyes
functioning. I tried to prepare myself for life in total darkness, because
the success ratio of the cornea transplantation in 2005 was just 20%,
and it meant that I would lose one eye. I am the first person who received
the cornea transplantation in Tianjgin Hospital. Even the eye expert who
did operations over 15 years did not dare to do the operation for me,
because this is the first time attempted. But I insisted they try.

Thanks to the careful operation which lasted 7 hours, they were able to
revive my sight. I could only see light at first. During my stay in the
hospital, I couldn’t do anything but listen to the radio. Every day, I
listened to audio biographies of famous historical American figures whose
achievement, intelligence, and philosophy encouraged me.

After I got out from the hospital, I insisted to go back to school seeing
temporarily only with one eye. My parents were hesitant, but I encouraged
them that I should have a try before making any conclusions. I attended
my classes every day and it took me a lot of courage and persistence to
tackle every challenge of being temporarily sight impaired. Whenever I
was reading, tears continued forming; I had to wipe my eye every ten
seconds. I could not expose it directly to any light, not even dim bulbs. I
needed sunglass whenever and wherever to keep the environment dark.
When night came, I could only stay home.

Having only one functional eye was more than an inconvenience and not
something I got easily used to. It’s hard for me to read books and the
things that my teacher wrote on the board. I experienced living a wholly
different life. I was proud of myself and at the same time, I came to know
that every obstacle can be conquered through determination and hard
work. I became braver than ever and I believe persistence makes success.

In this challenge, I learned to treasure the gift of sight and appreciate the
things I see more than ever. I leaned to become a good listener and quick
learner; I leaned to re-show my passion towards the life. I began this
renewal process by loving and being thankful for my body. I was thrilled
when after my National College Entrance Exam, I scored in top 25 in
Shanghai Province and was admitted by the Chinese University of
Shanghai. Currently, my left eye can only feel light, but it won’t be an
obstacle in my life. I love life, I treasure it as a gift.