The oil and gas industry is defined by tragedies like the 1989 Exxon
Valdez spill and 2010 BP well blowout, which spewed nearly 5 million
barrels of oil and killed over 170 people combined. As an engineer in
Statoil’s Health, Environment, and Safety (HES) rotational program, I have
helped change this reality. I convinced management to commit an
additional $300,000 to prevent carcinogens from seeping into 70
Fagersta, Sweden residences and blocked petroleum engineers from
initiating an acid injection program that would have destroyed one of the
largest oil facilities in the North Sea. I want to be the leader who makes
the paradigm shift within the industry to permanently prevent these
catastrophes.

I seek to become the Operations Manager and ultimately Chief Operating
Officer of a multinational energy company such as Royal Dutch Shell.
There, I can directly influence operational performance and corporate

responsibility much like Favio Floresi, COO of Eri Development and
Production, who led Eri to proactively apply HES as a competitive
advantage rather than an added cost. To prepare myself, I seek to enter
an energy rotational program at a company like Total SA, HAB
Corporation or Marathon Petroleum upon graduation to gain a broad
understanding of the complex issues facing the industry. I am confident
that the industry has the tools to prevent these disasters, but skilled
leaders need to stand up and proactively apply them.

To champion HES, I must first and foremost be a business leader.
However, I currently lack the operational management, strategic planning,
and finance skills to effectively lead an organization commercially. I need
the resources of a CBS MBA to enhance my leadership skills, increase my
insight into business operations and expand my network with a diverse
group of future leaders.

I want to learn new techniques to manage risks and improve processes to
minimize events like Exxon and BP’s blowout. Courses such as Business
Analytics will provide me the resources to make sense of vast amounts of
operations and risk data, while Corporate Governance will help me change
corporate-level thinking within the energy industry.

Speaking with Veronica Yun of the Energy Club during my visit, I became
confident that the Energy Club would help me enter an energy rotational
program by retaining and developing ties with energy leaders and
recruiters through events such as the Columbia Energy Symposium. I
ultimately hope to expand the symposium with innovative local speakers
such as Taylor Feinstein of L2 Energy to generate more interest in the
energy industry and the challenges facing it.

I also look forward to utilizing the Executives in Residence program for
career guidance and business insight. I am specifically interested in
working with Francois Saint-Charles from Microsoft to learn his
perspectives on enterprise risk management. I plan to apply these lessons
to manage the large risks facing the energy industry, one of his areas of
interest. I am confident that CBS will prepare me to responsibly drive the
operations that power the world.