Leading international PR efforts for Viapay (Brazil’s PayPal), I’ve been
managing the rollout of a new product called “express payment” from
Brazil to the Argentine market. In this project, I’ve advised the product
team to adjust the offerings to better suit the local needs. I created
Viapay’s social media strategy, advised on marketing campaigns and led
the creation of an online user tutorial. My leadership in this effort paid off
as payment volume in the region increased by 300%.

My first go-to-market experience ignited my passion for product
marketing which not only taught me how to think strategically but also
follow through the execution process. More importantly, I was excited to
notice that a successful marketing campaign can actually make a
difference in people’s life.

My post-MBA short-term goal is to work as a Product Marketing Manager
at an innovative high tech company such as eBay, Twitter or Apple. I am
seeking a role where I will be responsible for outbound marketing activities
for my products such as the Android Platform or Apple iPhone to obtain
exposure to the best high tech marketing practices. My long-term goal is
to become the CMO of a large Brazilian Internet company such as my
current employer Miravira Group where I redefine marketing for Brazil’s
high tech industry by mapping out refined product strategies and bringing
extraordinary value and experience to Brazilian consumers.

I have five years of work experience in Brazil’s high tech industry, and
have been exposed to diverse vantage points including accounting,
auditing, process improvement, marketing and public relations. After
graduating with a criminal justice degree, I chose auditing as my fast track
into the business world. It took little time and lots of sweat for me to
develop from a complete outsider to an accounting professional. As a
criminal investigator, I was taught to look at everything from multiple
angles and to relentlessly seek information to corroborate my findings.
This has allowed me to develop better problem solving skills and more
holistic view than my peers with only business degrees.

Later at a start-up financial service firm, I was in charge of acquiring and
serving the company’s foreign clients because I was the only one who
truly understands both North and South American markets and could
bridge the communication gap. After one month onboard, I landed the
firm’s first foreign account and increased the firm’s revenue by 15%. As
my portfolio grew, my team increased from 4 people to 8.

At Miravira, I’ve had the privilege of a front-row seat at the most
innovative company in Brazil, and have had the opportunity to roll out the
newest and coolest things to a global audience. I helped to craft
messages for the Brazilian media and coordinated communication among
US, Brazil and Argentina teams. I worked closely with the senior
management on the messaging of the privatization of world’s largest B2B
eCommerce platform which created the largest high tech IPO of US $1.9
billion after Google in 2007. I introduced Brazil’s first cloud-based
operating system, which has been running in over 4 million mobile phones,
and rolled out Viapay as the first online payment option for small
businesses in Uruguay.

These varied positions have prepared me for my long-term goal of being a
CMO by teaching me analytical and communication skills, strategic
thinking as well as leadership skills. In my career, I envision myself leading
the transition from price-driven marketing to a more value-based
approach. There is a huge opportunity for Internet companies to better
convey the value to users based on a deep insight of customer needs and
product positioning which in turn helps to make more great products.

The rigorous general management training at Haas will equip me with the
essential business knowledge to solve all sorts of problems in today’s
changing business environment from examining all angles of product
strategy to analyzing technology investment to enhancing product P&L. I
will definitely bid for the Marketing Strategy elective course taught by
Professor Villa-Boas where I get to work in teams in the Markstrat
simulation making typical marketing decisions in a competitive market
with limited information to win more customers. I am convinced that such
an experiential learning will help me develop an understanding, the skill,
and experience in formulating and planning marketing strategies for my
next product, probably Facebook mobile.

Having been an effective event planner for college graduation parties and
company annual conferences, I am excited about organizing the annual
>Play Digital Media Conference in 2013. I am also highly interested in
becoming a member of the Haas Technology Club where I could
contribute my insights about Brazil’s high tech industry, set up trek visits
to Brazilian high tech firms and visit innovative companies such as Google
and Amazon with my fellow classmates. These companies are the most
innovative in the world, and we will be doing our own creating at their
doorstep, in their halls and, someday, in their boardrooms. Nearly 1/3 of
recent Haas MBA graduates are working in the technology industry, an
invaluable resource in my future career.

Most importantly, I love the vibe at Haas. People are not only smart but
also down to earth. When I asked Catherine Lu, a Haas MBA graduate from
Bain Capital and Jeremy Patola ’13 what they like most about Haas, they
both said it was the close-knit collaborative community where everyone is
willing to land a hand to help others succeed. I am sure I will not only
benefit from such a culture but also contribute to maintain that type of
connection.