“Mumbai’s worst storms in 70 years kill 147, reveal crumbling drainage
infrastructure…”

This year, international media covered this devastating flood. Editorials
and global readers lamented: “India, a superpower? Not with that
infrastructure!”

Prior to this storm, American Associated Drainage (AAD), one of our
invested companies and the largest US drainage pipe manufacturer,
wanted to introduce its leading products to the Indian market. During my
preliminary work, I found most Indian cities had shoddy drainage systems
and used inferior pipes, which were easy to break and vulnerable to
storms. Initially I was certain that AAD’s products would soon replace
lower-quality pipes as long as we showed local customers the huge
difference in quality. Unfortunately, my over-confidence prevented me
from fully understanding our clients’ demands.

I worked with AAD engineers and prepared detailed documents to
illustrate our products’ excellent performance. However, the final
materials were too technical for local officials and our customers didn’t
see why they should pay for premium products.

Still, I thought we just needed to be more persuasive, so I relentlessly
insisted on the superiority of our products and that an insufficient
infrastructure would make the city a ticking time bomb. However, we only
won few contracts after several months. Most project managers
complained that municipal budgets were too limited to adopt high priced
pipes. I was crushed, what had I done wrong?

Finally, I realized that I failed to understand my client’s position. In
addition to helping the environment, I needed to understand customer
concerns: I’d been so insistent that I let my passion blind me. I should
have realized that municipal contractors would push for the sale of
cheaper pipes to increase their profit margins due to a lack of regulations.
Had I seen the warning signs, I could have found solutions such as local
manufacturing to reduce our price and done a cost analysis to prove to
customers that our products would not only resist storms, but also save
them money in the long run. I quickly adjusted my marketing strategy,
but a huge amount of inferior pipes had already been purchased.

I didn’t have enough power to prevent this kind of flooding tragedy in
Mumbai and many other Indian cities, but with an INSEAD experience, I’ll
get myself ready to fight for a sustainable, green and safe environment
for my people.