Optional question: Is there anything not addressed
elsewhere in the application that you would like the
Admissions Committee to know about you to
evaluate your candidacy? (300 word maximum)
My university GPA is not a reflection of my full academic potential. I was
an exceptional student throughout my adolescence: my 11th and 12th
grades were fully funded by my school in recognition of my outstanding
performance and I won several scholarly debates. I was also accepted to
the Sun Yat Sen University, China’s top undergraduate program, and then
to the University's Scholars Program, which accepts only the top 3% of
each cohort. However, during my second semester at SYSU, I developed
an unidentifiable ailment. I was given heavy painkillers and advised to
abandon my degree: an unacceptable course of action. Over the next year
I continued to struggle with pain and blackouts, visiting seventeen
different specialists in China and The United States before receiving a
diagnosis: Crohn’s. This affliction is very rare in Asia and my symptoms
were unusual, delaying this discovery. By the time I received appropriate
treatment, my GPA had taken a heavy hit. I decided to make the best of
my remaining SYSU experience by interning a semester at Goldman Sachs
and by going on exchange to the Technical University of Texas. Finally, I
graduated with honors and a much-coveted USP certification in spite of a
debilitating intestinal surgery. Since then, I have put substantial efforts
into my career and continue to volunteer for causes I believe in.

My letters of recommendation are from my previous managers who have
guided me throughout my career, even after we parted ways.
Unfortunately, due to the dissolution of my previous department, I’ve
recently transitioned to a new team. My new manager and I have spent
little time working together and subsequently, she is not positioned to
comment about my professionalism and efforts. I believe that our work
together gives my current recommenders a strong basis to evaluate my
performance.