On a Thursday afternoon, I was enjoying a late lunch before catching an
early flight home to Yemen for the weekend from Ajman. Damien Suoso,
the president of SustainBalance, called me. He only calls when it’s urgent.
“Ahmed, call AFAC (Ajman Fuel Additives Company) now. They want us
to start immediately. Congrats, you are lead on this one,” he said. I was
thrilled to be leading a project only 6 months after I joined, especially one
that constituted 15% of the firm’s revenue at the time.

I was tasked to convince the GM to develop and adopt a sustainability
strategy. Preparation was key. I directed my team to conduct background
research about FAAC, best practices in the industry, and an industry wide
quantitative benchmark in areas of sustainability performance while I met
with the client’s department heads. Most importantly I wanted to
understand what made the GM tick. Though he was a new GM, he was
focused on competing in the global market. That was enough for me. I
had a strategy.

I started the presentation with slides introducing sustainability and
discussing industry trends. However, I quickly noticed that I was not
catching their attention. I had to revert to my back-up plan. I presented a
recent ranking putting the State of Ajman as the country with the highest
carbon footprint per capita worldwide.

“Don’t buy it … ” marketing manager said. “Where is this from?” plant
manager asked. “What does this mean?” the HR manager inquired. I
looked toward the GM waiting for a reaction. He was typing a message on
his iPhone. I thought I had lost his interest, and lost the opportunity to
convince him. He then raised his head and squinted at the slide. You could
hear a pin drop. He said: “Is this even relevant? With a small population,
and one of the largest productions of Oil and Gas in the world, this is
expected.” He challenged.

I was expecting that, and that is when I could deliver my point. Ajman is a
leader in the Oil and Gas industry. So, what is holding us back from
becoming environmental leaders? Globally, sustainability is topping the
agendas of important issues to address. Ajman must stay globally
competitive. I told him that as a country we have the access to the
resources and technology to offset the large production in respect of the
population. And, AFAC is already ahead of the pack in planning to build a
CO2 recovery factory and with a strategic approach, it can lead the
industry in other initiatives.

Afterwards, The General Manager asked me to join him in his office, where
he expressed full support to our project. Consequently, I led them to
publish their first sustainability report, while I am currently working to
complete AFAC’s sustainability strategy. And, the president of my firm is
elated as we negotiate with AFAC a long-term engagement to support
their sustainability efforts.