In March 2010, my wife was pregnant with our first child and I was about
to receive a promotion to team lead of DIOTECH’s upcoming professional
services group. At the same time, one of our direct competitors opened
in Montreal and offered me an engineer position with nearly 25% more
pay than the upcoming team lead role. I chose to stay with my current
company to best hone my client-facing and management skills. In my
spare time, I developed my longtime passion – my company Footballyze,
and was in talks with an investor. Everything looked rosy.

In April, things started to topple. First, my wife had a miscarriage.

Then the failure of a vital company project forced widespread layoffs, including
me. Lastly, my potential investor ended talks and moved back to India.
Shocked and under financial pressure, I quickly realized I must continue on
the path I’d chosen – I was down but not out.

From April to October, I was playing three roles: a husband, a boss, and a
job hunter. In the morning I drove my wife to the doctor, or to the lake
for a walk. In the afternoon I worked on Footballyze's core architecture,
or arranged project meetings with my contractors or agents that could
possibly bring in investments. Then in the evening I would research
employers, send in resumes, or prepare for interviews. Days were never
long enough.

In August Footballyze locked down its first customer, a betting company
using Footballyze to analyze odds of soccer game data. The deal brought
in nearly $30,000 in revenue. In October I earned multiple job offers from
top financial companies, but I took an offer from a large casino gaming
company, Radioactive Gaming, as I wanted to learn more about betting
clients who were a large part of Footballyze’s base. This enabled me to
better understand how my models could help set up odds, and the
combined career and startup income has gained extended time to help my
wife to stay home longer for a more stable recovery.

While not many experience all these setbacks at once, I have some
advices for a colleague who might be in a similar situation. First and
foremost, it’s important to stay calm in big waves of turbulences and not
regret past decisions. Instead, look forward to the next decision, and the
next action to take. Remember, don’t look at the scoreboard when the
game is still in play. Second, logically evaluate your options, and plan a
path that is both sound and emotionally satisfying - follow the heart. True
passion will not only provide entertainment but motivation at difficult
times. Last but not least, the fact that we feel frustrated is because we
are passionate about our goals and we worked towards them but did not
get there the first time. The only way to dispense that frustration is to
continuing trying. Life is like a soccer game, don't stop trying until the
final whistle.