Ahmed Ankara
Amman, Yemen

December ___, 2012

Mr. Rod Garcia
Senior Director of Admissions
MIT Sloan School of Management
50 Memorial Drive
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142

Dear Mr. Garcia:

It is with the passion and ambition that have successfully driven my
professional and personal life that I am pursuing a seat in the 2014 Sloan
LGO class.

Spanning over eight countries, my professional and personal
achievements in aerospace and sustainability have been effective in
inspiring my vision of an environmentally sustainable, socially responsible,
and innovative aviation and aerospace industry. The LGO program is a
powerful stepping-stone towards facilitating my role in compelling that
change and the ideal culture in which I thrive.

Fascinated by planes and aviation while driven by the scarcity of
opportunities in the Middle East, I left my family to pursue my passion by
studying Aerospace Engineering at the University of Wisconsin. I
graduated with High Honors at the top 6% of my class, earning the
Distinguished Scholar Award, while leading a class of 50 pledging
candidates as Candidate Officer at Alpha Beta Epsilon, the National
Aerospace Honor Society. But it was when I piloted my first solo-flight
after only 10 hours of Private Pilot License training that I realized my
childhood dream.

Upon graduation I joined Nokuma Consulting as a Technology Consultant,
working with Bombardier. I successfully led the design and implementation
of a supplier management reporting system used by both the 900+ line
employees and senior management. This instant impact earned me the
highest performance rating among all first and second year analysts
nationally.

During a twelve-month sabbatical, I volunteered in Azerbaijan, Jordan, and
the West Bank. While organizing and leading empowerment camps, cultural diversity seminars, and photography workshops for at-risk youth,
I learned how to construct and support their creativity as they envisioned
a brighter future.

My sabbatical showed me the wide impact professionals and corporations
can have in improving the world. And thus, I joined SustainBalance, a
boutique-consulting firm aiming to accelerate sustainability in the Middle
East. Within 6 months, I moved to an Engagement Lead role, managing
the firm’s sustainability projects with billion dollar companies. Most
notably, I manage our work with the state owned Yemeni Oil Company,
where I lead the development of a sustainability group for the company
and 20 of its subsidiaries.

The LGO program is the only program that would prepare me towards my
vision. Sloan’s flexible curriculum and action-learning based classes such
as the L-Lab and S-Lab will allow me to explore the business strategy and
leadership aspects of sustainability. The Aero Engineering program will
deepen my understanding of the aerospace industry. The first class
academic preparation of MIT is unparalleled. However, it is Sloan’s culture
of driven and results-oriented professionals who approach their work with
collaboration and humility that attracts me. Such collaborative and open
culture was evident when I talked to professor Mark Morison and several
LGO, SDM, and other graduate students of MIT. Drawing upon this
dynamic culture, I will envision breakthroughs in the Aerospace industry.

I look forward to the opportunity of an interview. Meanwhile, I would be
happy to address any questions.

Best regards,
Ahmed Ankara
