This May, after LND’s latest board of directors meeting, my grandfather,
the co-founder of our family business, told me the board appreciated my
performance over the past six years, and he wanted me to take over his
role in the company within five years. After collecting myself, I realized
earning a top-tier MBA was more urgent than ever.

After my previous application to Duke, I took the opportunity to reflect
on my career path and the extent to which I wanted to be involved in my
family’s business, recalling a defining reason why I joined LND after
graduation. At the time, LND’s overly aggressive sales style was causing
significant customer complaints. When I read those complaints, I felt sick
to my stomach: I couldn’t bear to see my family’s painstaking efforts
tarnished by shortsighted sales goals and inefficient management. I joined
the company’s marketing department, standardizing service offerings and
solving brand-trust issues in the bud. Since that encouraging start, I have
kept on growing with LND and this period of reflection helped me realize
that the long-term goal stated in my previous application—starting a
consulting firm to help family businesses in Pakistan—was not what I
ultimately wanted. Indeed, I have gradually realized that LND isn’t just
another company; it is a legacy that I want to maintain and expand. I’m
now certain that I want to become the CEO of LND, leading and expanding
our venture into a beauty giant. This is what I was born to do.

Correspondingly, I have re-aligned my short-term goals to better prepare
myself for this challenge. Post-MBA, I will join a consulting firm with
strong connections in the consumer packaged goods industry. This
industry exposure will hone my strategic thinking skills, allowing me to
develop long-term plans for LND.

Additionally, a top consulting firm’s reputation together with Duke’s
credentials will prove invaluable in winning LND investments. These are
intangible benefits that I could not gain if I returned to LND immediately
post-MBA.

Reapplying also developed my ability to handle disappointment. With
strong encouragement from many Fuquans and my family, I accepted this
temporary setback and pressed forward. Since then, I have taken every
effort to strengthen my application, re-taking the GMAT (now 730, 96%),
TOEFL iBT (now 109), and a series of online pre-MBA courses including
accounting, finance and statistics, all while keeping contact with the
Fuqua community. I have experienced significant successes early in my
life—from getting into my college of choice to experiencing solid job
progression—but overcoming this setback proves that I can also deal with
unforeseen obstacles.

With another year’s experience in the beauty industry, and intensive
exposure to project management and expansion initiatives, I believe now
is the best time for me to bring my experience to both benefit from and
contribute to Duke’s MBA program. Since last year’s application, I have
assumed greater responsibilities at my family business, as I was promoted
to lead several key projects. For instance, I led a group of elite employees
from marketing, sales, finance and operations to identify potential growth
opportunities, organizing weekly “opportunity vision” meetings where we
brainstormed and expressed our opinions on potential new directions.
Through market research, we identified a promising skincare product to
complement LND’s haircare-dominated lineup. After I convinced senior
management to approve a 3-year $600,000 exclusive deal with this
product’s supplier, we sold out our first order within one week and are
estimating this initiative will lead to sales of $2.2M by the end of 2014.
Furthermore, under my leadership, our e-commerce business has also
expanded rapidly. I adopted creative strategies: organizing professional
styling training online to answer our customers’ questions, leapfrogging
competitors that used videos – an industry-first in Pakistan; and further,
asking R&D to launch a new online-only product line. To date, our ecommerce revenue accounts for 11% of our overall sales—amounting to
$4.2M—and is increasing at a double-digit rate.

These successes have only deepened my commitment to pursue a Duke
MBA to realize my career goals. Reaffirming my commitment to Fuqua, I
visited Durham this September and decided to apply in the Early Action
Round. Meanwhile, through my continuing interactions with Luke Li,
Duke’s Regional Director, Wilson Fong (Daytime ’11), and Rahul Patel
(Daytime ’11), I have been truly impressed by these gracious, smart and
all-rounded individuals. Fuqua is without doubt the community I’m looking
for.

Go Blue Devils! Go Duke!