From scientist to fashionista, pretty awesome, right?

In 2008, at Princeton University, I was nominated for director of the
Spring Blossom Festival Event, a huge celebration in the Japanese student
community. Through hundreds of daily emails and twice as many phone
calls, I took charge of flyers, menus, lighting, photography, video and a 3hour stage performance. Among the 17 events, the most dazzling were a
15-minute comedy sketch with 5 performers and 12 crewmembers, and
the fashion show with 17 models and 25 crewmembers. After a long day
in the lab, I’d go home and be writing sketch-comedy until 3 a.m. I also
led casting calls, asking engineering and science students to become parttime comedians or fashion models. That’s where the trouble started.

“Absolutely not!” It turns out that science majors aren’t fans of the
catwalk. I was perplexed: “how to get these techies on-stage?” When I
asked them to perform, they said they weren’t qualified for the show or
made up excuses. Thinking on my feet, I prodded out any previous
performing experience: “You played violin as a kid right? It’s the same!”
From that point on, it was all encouragement - "You can make it! You’ve
got talent!” Finally, I let them know that the show wasn’t a competition.
Instead, this would be a fun way to make new friends. “No pressure!” I
promised. By the time I was done, 25 people agreed to participate in the
show!

After 4 weeks of practice, 90 performers took the stage in front of a
sold out crowd of 900 people. The show was a roaring success and was
even covered by Japanese Press, a publication reaching the northeast’s
entire Japanese community. Our show helped introduce new students to
life in America, and many Americans to a wonderful Japanese festival.
Best of all, I made lifelong friends: I met my business partner at this
event, which led to my pharmaceutical startup in California.

Through this show, I learned to be a risk-taker rather than a follower and
learned to come up with new ideas on the spot, instead of waiting for
other people’s suggestions. This shaped my character tremendously,
pushing me to become a scientist, who will always research the unknown
and think in innovative ways, which will help me deliver novel products.
Subsequently, I also learned to take the initiative by stocking my CRO’s
catalog with 300 all-new products, to distinguish our start-up from the
competition, increasing total annual sales by 40%.

Finally, before the show, I was fairly shy, but this experience pushed me
to become more confident in directing others. Without the confidence
gained from directing this show, I would have never been able to persuade
clients to purchase our products, to argue with manufacturers for
materials and equipment and to coordinate and manage teams on
academic and scientific projects.