I hope to become the CFO for a young high-tech company in China, and
build it into the next Facebook or Google by developing the right financial
strategy to drive its long-term business vision and promoting meaningful
changes in operations. To achieve this, I need to build up my expertise in
finance and other business functions such as strategy and marketing. An
Anderson MBA, through its unique academic and recruiting resources in
finance and technology, will help me develop this expertise. Immediately
after my MBA I plan to join a rotational program in finance for a
multinational technology giant, enhancing my abilities in financial planning
and analysis (FP&A) and treasury, which will help me transition to a CFO
position.

Both my professional and personal experiences instilled in me a lasting
passion to become a finance executive. I witnessed my father, a pioneer
of privatization of Chinese accounting firms, turn an inefficient firm into
one of the most successful accountancies in Chongqing. Seeing how he
combined finance expertise and interpersonal skills motivated me to
follow his footsteps, but lead a much bigger organization--scaling up a
mid-size company to become an industry leader. As a senior auditor at
PwC, I have led teams to actively promote value-adding changes while
gaining firsthand knowledge of the financial and operational practices of
technology companies. For example, when a telecom operator with over
$40 billion revenue implemented an ERP system, I advised the client to fix
weaknesses in the capital expenditure process and prevented a potential
$1 million accounting error. At PwC, I have mastered technical skills in
financial reporting, analysis, and business processes, enabling me to excel
in FP&A and controllership as CFO.

However, I feel that my learning curve has flattened, because serving
external clients means I couldn’t fully appreciate every aspect of
management or actively lead business transformations, which prompts me
to accelerate my growth with an MBA to transition into a finance
rotational program in technology companies, such as Amazon or Google.
There, I can gain in-depth and comprehensive insights into the finance
function as an insider, which is essential for my long-term success as CFO.
In addition, the responsibilities of CFOs have expanded from merely
overseeing an organization’s financial welfare to pinpointing operation
deficiencies and formulating strategies with CEOs; in China’s explosively
growing but fiercely competitive high-tech industry, companies with poor
financial management are forced out of business. CFOs who can adeptly
manage financial resources and can fit finance operations into the bigger
strategic picture are in great need. Therefore, I need to enhance my
knowledge in areas outside of my current expertise, such as strategy,
marketing, and capital markets.

An MBA from Anderson will be critical to expand my business knowledge
beyond finance. Anderson’s Easton Technology Leadership program, with
courses such as Technology Management, will improve my strategic
thinking abilities in a tech- focused economy. High Tech Business
Association will offer great recruiting support through its Tech-treks and
career nights, providing opportunities to learn from seasoned
practitioners. In Professor Bucklin’s Price Policies course, I will learn pricing
strategies and implementation to work closely with marketers as CFO. The
hands-on Applied Management Research Program will let me put my
acquired knowledge into practice and dive deep into real-world business.

Anderson’s finance curriculum will also build up finance skills I wasn't
exposed to at PwC. Mergers and acquisitions (M&A) have become an
increasingly important growth strategy in China’s high-tech industry,
highlighted by a recent $1.9 billion acquisition by Baidu. Professor George
Geis, in his Strategy in Digital Economy course, will not only walk me
through current transactions but will teach me to strategize about M&A
and partnerships deals to better exploit lucrative merger opportunities.
My interaction with Anderson alumni has proved I will benefit both
professionally and personally during my two years at Anderson. Anderson
alumna and long-time friend, Shen Wenting (‘15), shared how Anderson
provided her with tremendous recruiting support and helped her switch
career from sell-side research to a major mutual fund. Xu Di (‘15)
described how, in Anderson Career Teams (ACT) of Parker CMC, secondyear students offered valuable insights for launching her career in the
media industry. The genuine collaborative energy I saw among Anderson
alumni grabbed my heart.

With my skills to integrate finance and strategy sharpened at Anderson
and gaining access to the incredibly responsive, powerful network, I am
ready to be the agent of change as a CFO.