When I visit my father, a successful entrepreneur in the pharma industry,
we go for long walks in the mornings and often talk about my future
plans—and thus, lately, Fuqua. When he asks why I want to attend Fuqua,
I first explain that at Fuqua I'll attain the best combination of business and
biotech education, necessary for achieving my long-term goal of
commercializing early-stage biotech products by launching a startup.
Fuqua's academic structure and abundant biotech learning resources from
the Health Sector Management (HSM) program are what I need to thrive
in my internship and first job post-MBA. The global biotechnology firms I
am targeting—RebeccaRx, Genbiotech, and GenUp—all recruit at Fuqua
and target HSM grads. Fuqua's 6-week per term curriculum would allow
me to take 3-4 HSM electives in my first year, as my friend and current
2nd-year HSM student Michael Patel has done. Having taken Health Care
Operations and Biotechnology: Management of Drug Discovery, I will have
an edge during my summer internship, especially important as, according
to my 2nd year MBA contacts, companies recruit heavily from their intern
pools. Speaking with Michael, I am especially excited about the Health
Care Practicum courses and exploring hands-on learning opportunities like
mentored study at Quintiles and the business consulting project involving
the Duke School of Medicine. My friend Catherine Johnson ‘05, director of
Global Innovation at Duke Medical School, is sponsoring many current HSM
students and is actively integrating the MBA program with the healthcare
opportunities at the medical school. With industry specific skills that I can
only gain from HSM coursework, I'll have the best preparation to obtain a
position at a leading biotech company.

I tell my father that my plan is to continue building management skills,
biotech-specific business knowledge and operations experience by
working as a project manager at a leading biotech company such as
GenUp after Fuqua. With my strong scientific background I am already
particularly qualified for managing biotech projects and leading scientists,
and at the SJU I have risen from research assistant into a leadership role
usually held by doctorates. However, as he agrees, I need a Fuqua MBA
with its unparalleled HSM electives to transition into a project
management role in a biotech firm.

I've learned from my father that a network is of the utmost importance.
Fuqua's ideal location in Research Triangle Park will grant access to an
abundant network of biotech executives, entrepreneurs, and investors. My
plan is to fully utilize this unique resource, attending industry networking
events. The annual Duke MBA Health Care Conference will give me the
unique opportunity to develop personal ties with speakers and biotech
professionals. I am particularly excited about the opportunity to visit local
biotech companies on treks, and to learn about the experiences of people
like COO of RebeccaRX Chris Hildebrant, by inviting local biotech
executives to our classroom - a common occurrence in HSM classes. By
expanding my network at Fuqua and later at VimTechnologies, I will lay
the groundwork for recruiting a founding team and obtaining investors for
starting my own biotech company, I tell my father. I look forward to
leveraging my network at the SJU and my father's network in the
biopharmaceutical industry in China to bring in speakers, such as Steve
Jameson, Deputy Director of Licensing and Entrepreneurship at the SJU
Office of Technology Transfer.

With the opportunity to participate in Duke’s Startup Challenge, Fuqua is
the perfect place for an entrepreneur. When I was in college, I first gained
my passion for entrepreneurship by founding my university's Amnesty
International chapter and recruited a team that successfully raised
$5000. After college, I further developed my entrepreneurial skills as
founder of Shizan.cn, where I led a team of 5\7 people, developed a 20page business plan, and successfully launched our website into the
market. I will build on these experiences with a concentration in
Entrepreneurship and Innovation. By taking courses like Raising Capital:
Financial Instruments, Institutions and Strategy and Intellectual Capital
and Competitive Strategy, I will gain well-rounded knowledge on how to
finance and build early stage biotech companies. I learned from Louis
Bastien, Co-Chair of the Duke Global Entrepreneurship Network and
panelist for the Fuqua info session I attended, that many of the finalists in
past years have been teams with projects in biotechnology and medical
devices. By participating in the Challenge, I will expand my network and
gain hands-on experience in writing a business plan and commercializing
early stage technologies. When I begin reaching out to investors in my
network developed at Fuqua and GenUp, a clearly developed business plan
will be necessary to obtain financial backing. The next step will be
recruiting top-notch scientists to develop the early stage technologies my
company will license to big pharma. My plan is to attend research
seminars at Duke Medical School and meet with researchers over coffee
to discuss commercialization opportunities, something that I have already
begun doing at the SJU as a technology commercialization consultant,
building long-lasting relationships that will help me recruit talent.
We end our walk and I gaze at the small lake behind my father's house as
it takes me back to when I went fishing with him as a 9 year old—before
he started his pharma company. Now as a biotech professional I recognize
the immense challenges he faced. However, I feel invigorated by my
decision to apply for a Fuqua MBA. I am certain it will help me trump
similar challenges and prepare me for difficult situations that even my
father has yet to encounter.