Nowadays security becomes one of the biggest issues in China that
threaten our lives. 400 fire disasters happen every day, but 90% of the
buildings are lacking exit devices, ubiquitous in the West for emergency
exits. In 2009, approximately 30 children were killed in schools but we
failed to identify the murderers immediately because the there was no
camera in campus. I was shocked by my research result that almost no
university in Beijing paralleled those in the USA in security. Gradually, I
formed my career goal. I want to become an entrepreneur in security
industry providing solutions to safeguard people.

I will start my own business in China, where the market size is about 130
Billion RMB with 22% growth rate. I want to create the attachment
between these technical products and the users. I will input the intellect,
aesthetics and innovation into these technical products. You could open
the door for your children who forget keys via cell phone. You could also
monitor your room to see how your puppy is from the laptop even if you
are laying on a beach far away. In addition, I’m driven to establish a
company positioned as solutions expert rather than product supplier. I
want to provide customized solutions by deeply understanding how
customers think, work and react.

In the short term, to accumulate professional experience and deepen my
industry insights, I plan to seek a senior product manager position for
security products in leading companies such as DMT, Sully and Shultz.
Product Management, where I can blend the creativity and initiative
required for product development and where I lead cross-functional teams
to achieve a shared goal, mirrors the experience of starting a company
and serves as an excellent training ground for me to develop the skills
necessary for launching my own business.

To achieve my career goal, I still need to improve in several areas and
INSEAD is the best fit for me.

First, I want to utilize the intensive 1-year program to complement my
gap in certain business functions like operation and finance. I will return to
my previous industry and functions, more capable and mature. In this
sense, INSEAD fits me because I could return in less time. I appreciate
efficiency and fast-pace and will definitely adapt to INSEAD’s fast-learning-fast-living environment.

In addition, security industry is related to almost every industry because
safety is a common need. To develop total solutions, I need to have a
deep understanding of different industries. INSEAD’s big alumni base can
help me build up networks in various industries to understand more.

The limit of your languages is the limit of your world. In the past few
years, I strongly feel the importance of global perspective in doing
business today. And global perspective is something related to social and
cultural elements. INSEAD has students coming from 80 countries. I want
to leverage the diversity of INSEAD to understand the world outside and
thus develop my global perspective.
