1.

I am happily married to a girl I met when I was 3 years old,
although we only started dating 20 years after that fateful first
encounter. Definitely not love at first sight!

2.

I first saw the heartbeat of my 6-month old baby on my 27th
birthday.

3.

I took 15 social dancing courses in college, half of them for
credit, as a break from all the upper level science courses I was
taking at the time. My favorite was West Coast popping and
locking but I also took Country Western out of a desire to try
new things and test myself.

4.

I love Dim Sum and although I have had it at multiple restaurants
in Hong Kong, I still think that Chung King in New York City has
the best Dim Sum.

5.

I was born in Xi'An China, home of the terracotta warriors. My
connection to China's culture and people was a driving force
behind my first startup - Wushan.co.cn.

6.

Although born in Northern China, I can't stand noodles and
dumplings, Northern staple foods. However, my family loves
them and much conflict arises when dinnertime comes - they
usually win, but after some negotiation I get to pick dessert.

7.

I moved to the US when I was 6 years old, but moved back to
China when I was 10, then back to the US when I was 12, then
back to China when I was 15, and then finally settled in the US
when I was 20. As a result of this, I am fluent in Mandarin
Chinese and taught Chinese to high school students when I was
a college senior. I helped one of my students receive an 800 on
her SAT Chinese subject test.

8.

I love to read biographies. My first biography was "The
Autobiography of Malcolm X." I have worn a watch every single
day since finishing the epilogue of this book.

9.

I love buying books I find useful as gifts for people. The first gift
I gave my future wife was in fact a book, entitled "The New
Thigh Diet For Women." I still get a hard time from her.

10. My favorite plant is the lotus. This white flower makes me feel
very serene and watering it every few days helps me
concentrate.
11. I am having trouble naming my unborn child because we need to
give the child both a Chinese and English name.
12. I love public speaking. My first MC act was for a rodeo contest in
Texas. I have been MC for multiple Chinese New Year events in
college since. My favorite part of being an MC is making the
audience laugh and get involved.
13. While representing my current lab at an International HPV
vaccines conference, had an unforgettable ski trip in Mont
Tremblant, Canada. It was my first time skiing and I made it all
the way down from the peak, even accidentally zipping down a
blue slope.
14. I started kayaking as a hobby with my wife. We enjoy watching
for birds and turtles in lakes and rivers near New York and New
Hampshire. Our first adventure together was during our
honeymoon in Samoa, when we circled our island resort in a
double kayak.
15. I have a sister named Linda who is currently studying western
literature as a college freshman in Tucson, Arizona. I enjoyed
spending hours reading with her as a child, although I prefer nonfiction while she prefers fiction.

16. I enjoy fishing with my uncle.
17. I was crazy about badminton during college, and even played for
3-4 hours a day in 100-degree weather when visiting China. I
entered a badminton tournament in Beijing, but was eliminated in
the first round. OK - I'm not good, but I never back down from a
challenge.
18. I entered a humorous speech contest at my Toastmasters club
during college and won second place. It was about my dream of
playing in the NBA, and I concluded that the reason I failed was
because I hated eating my veggies as a child.
19. I love Hip-Hop music, and started listening to it regularly after
taking a break dance course in college. My favorite song is
2Pac’s "Dear Mama," because it reminds me of my mother.
20. I won first place in the county with baseball little league team
Wildcats when I was in 6th grade. I hadn’t felt that much pride
again until my website’s servers went live last year.
21. I have to have breakfast first thing in the morning, regardless of
what time I wake up.
22. I spent a night at a Bed and Breakfast in the township of
Bloemson, which is a 30-minute drive outside of Johannesburg,
South Africa. I tasted the clamor of a crowded South African
township and saw first-hand the struggles of the townspeople.
My passion for global health was ignited, later leading me to
found my university's R.E.L.I.E.F chapter.
23. I spent Christmas 2010 in Uganda with other RELIEF chapter
leaders as its first student convoy to the country. We celebrated
by cooking a homemade Christmas dinner and having drinks with
our team’s doctors and Ugandan Country Director Mark Leblanc.
24. My wife's and my wedding bands were a special gift from my
best friend and roommate in college, Jamie Lee. I know that our
wedding bands are unique, and that Jamie and I can always
depend on each other for help.
25. I plan to take my wife on a horseback trek through China to
immerse in the scenery, local culture and history. This was
inspired by reading "The Legend of the Condor Heroes," a famous novel when I was a junior high student in
China.