Two years ago, I zested my first lime when I inherited my first TYBG
assignment: to manage the final stages of bringing a citrus-zesting rasp
grater to market. I was determined to replicate the speed of development I had learned at my last job in the fast-paced entertainment
industry. The zester patent, held by a rival named Paveon Industries, was
due to expire, and our new line of graters would go head to head with
their line at retail. Launching on time was essential. Our version would
offer a bi-directional grating surface, with the goal of doubling the
efficiency of zesting, not wasting the return motion after each forward
zest.

When the first samples arrived, my engineering counterpart and I zested 25 bushels of limes and lemons. The zest came out fluffy and fast,
and the graters held up after rounds of dishwasher cycles and force and
drop tests. It looked like a winner.

While we completed our testing, the deadline for approval approached and
the sales team pressured me to release the item in time for Target’s
annual planogram re-set. Awed by the apparent functionality and
durability of the design, I did not think twice about approving the graters
to ship. I was sure this zester heralded my first TYBG success.

Annual sales were projected to top $600,000 and five-star online reviews raved
about the bi-directionality of the device. The initial feedback reinforced
my enthusiasm.

Then TYBG’s president Robert Khaa brought one home and everything
changed. He tried it out and it worked fine, but after employing the
traditional taste test, discovered the one flaw that we never
noticed.

Sure, the bidirectional zester zested nearly twice as fast, but it

also produced a less tasty zest with the return motion, which zested
more of the bitter pith. We had great product functionality, swift and
efficient, but poor-tasting zest, which was, indeed, the final product. We
needed to develop and launch a new version, and this time, I made no
promises on the expected launch date until I was sure we had designed
the best possible zesting surface, able to produce zest without pith.

I had learned one of the most important lessons of product development:
only the end-user can provide the ultimate green light for product release.
Since then, I have championed scheduling additional rounds of user
testing and feedback as part of the development process for all our
products.

Adopting this approach, I no longer feel I have to choose
between delaying a launch and bringing the best possible product to
market.

It is without bitterness that I have turned the lemon zest, pith
and all, into product development lemonade.