Growing up I was always the “big guy”. As a teenager I was 6’6” and
320lbs and I looked like an NFL offensive lineman. My confidence could
not have been lower. Even as a child, I knew that my weight had health
risks, as I saw my father struggle with diabetes and my grandfather die
from heart disease. My doctor informed me that if I did not lose weight,
he fully expected me to follow the same path as my father and ultimately
my grandfather.

As my weight increased, my health gradually decreased. Finally, I’d had
enough. I had lived most of my life as a heavier person, and I was sick of
it. In addition, my wife had just given birth to our first son and I did not
want my weight to impede my ability to raise him. I told myself that I was
going to take back my future and move forward with a happy, healthy life
for my family and me.

Determined, I mapped out my weight loss attack plan and began working
out three hours a day and following a strict diet. Certainly there were
many days, particularly after a long day at the office, when I just wanted
to come home and veg out. During the holidays I struggled to stay on my
diet, but I was able to quickly get back on track by slightly loosening my
restrictive diet so that I was less tempted to cheat. I knew that I needed
to be realistic to achieve the long-term results I wanted. That slight
change in behavior increased my morale and gave me the drive to
continue. My efforts paid off: after six months, I had lost nearly 100
pounds. I had taken back my life.

I have always had strong sense of determination. I was one of eight
children and my dad was unemployed for most of my childhood, so my
parents struggled financially. Growing up I promised myself that I would
out-hustle and out-work anybody to ensure a better life for my family. My
responsibility as a husband and father continues to fuel my drive.

However, through this experience I discovered that determination alone is
not enough to reach my goals. I realized that the key to success is a
combination of unwavering determination and a slow, steady approach to
avoid setbacks and achieve lasting results.

Discovering my winning strategy for long-term success has helped me
accomplish difficult things both personally and professionally and will help
me reach my goals in energy. The sector has a large number of diverse
and political stakeholders, extensive government oversight, and slow
adoption of new ideas. I expect setbacks, opposition and adversity as I
look to shape its evolution, but I recognize now that strong will and
determination with a thoughtful and steady approach is the best solution
to overcome these setbacks. I am certain that with this strategy, I will
achieve a tailored renewable energy solution through the combination of
new-tech and traditional approaches.