While consulting for Centrom, two weeks before the summer holiday, I
was tasked with creating a time-sensitive proposal for an upcoming
project, estimated to bring in $700,000 of revenue the following year.
The proposal was due by Monday July 19th, so that the Senior Manager
would have sufficient time to proofread and approve the final copy by the
Friday before our office closed. As the youngest employee in my office, I
was determined to establish myself as a formidable consultant amongst
my older peers. Although I was fighting flu-like symptoms, I figured I
could complete the 70-page proposal and then recover after some rest
during the holidays. Three days before the proposal was due, my
condition worsened. Instead of asking for help, I requested a 2-day
extension, still determined to impress.

On the night before it was due, my roommate took me to the emergency
room, where I was diagnosed with an acute respiratory viral infection and
severe bronchitis. My roommate emailed my Senior Manager about my
condition, and informed her that I would be unable to finish the proposal
before the deadline. The client ultimately didn’t receive our proposal until
after August 1st, and the deadlines for all impending work on this project
were pushed back two months.

This incident could have been avoided had I simply asked for help.
Promotions were on the horizon and I wanted to prove that, despite my
age, I was just as capable as my more experienced peers. Insistent on
doing the work by myself, I potentially jeopardized the entire project and
our company’s reputation. My actions damaged my reputation and worst
of all, I put my own health at risk.

I’m grateful to have learned that asking for help isn’t a sign of weakness;
oftentimes, it’s a marker of strength. Recently at MacroGreen, the CEO
assigned me a new project that needed to start right away. Because I
was already overseeing 12 other projects, I didn’t have the time to take
on another immediately. Rather than foolishly insisting that I would do it
all by myself, I approached our newly hired Operations Manager to help me
co-lead this project. Sharing the responsibilities not only helped me
prioritize my time, but also allowed me to develop the young manager’s
skills.
I no longer put my pride before the company’s goals, which leads to a
more collaborative, healthier work environment for all.