Shortly into my tenure as the finance controller of Courvoisier’s Asia
Region Wholesale Business Unit, I encountered the toughest challenge of
my career. Covering duty-free businesses in fifteen markets and ranked as
the second largest profit center in Asia, our business unit was expanding
rapidly with an annual turnover of USD 150M and annual profit growth
rates of 34%+. Subsequently, highly detailed financial analysis was
required to facilitate decision-making in our growing business, and
operational efficiency became a key target. However, insufficient human
resources combined with differing practices across markets seriously
limited our ability to reach this goal. To comply with higher standards and
free additional resources for advanced business analysis, I identified the
need for a set of standard operation procedures across all regions. My
biggest challenge was to coordinate with sales and marketing managers
based in 8 countries with different business practices, all of whom were
resistant to change since this required extra work and additional approval
procedures.

To gain support for this plan and to convince my colleagues that this shift
in practices was necessary for our growth, I arranged a video conference
with all sales/marketing managers and prepared a set of presentations
illustrating our financial growth, the best practices in other markets and
the advantages of a formalized procedure. “Piece of cake, right?” I
confidently expected they’d agree with my proposal but was I ever wrong!

Their awkward silence spoke volumes and quickly dampened my mood:
they definitely weren’t happy with my suggestions. The project kicked off
anyway, but I knew I hadn’t won them over. Disappointed but reluctant to
give up, I pushed myself to consider the root causes behind their
resistance.

I soon realized that, coming from a financial background, I was viewing
this situation from a narrow perspective, illustrating potential problems
through abstract numbers rather than practical cases. Dusting myself off,
I contrasted our existing procedures to the new practices and provided a
series of examples to help sway my colleagues. Unfortunately, I still felt
resistance: the managers still didn’t see the need to change. After
listening to their feedback, I proposed the ways that a set of standard
procedures would improve overall efficiency, which would in turn make
everyone’s jobs easier. I took our new price letter preparation process as
example to illustrate the drastic improvements in the total required manhours to finish this task; proving how it could be reduced from 60 hours
to 40 for each individual market. Finally things clicked: their attitude
changed and they began to participate in the process. We developed
numerous additional ideas during our brain storming sessions and
everyone worked cooperatively during the trial implementation thereafter.

Our hard work paid off: the new system worked so well that even the
once skeptical managers reported positive feedback and I presented
these improvements as a best practice at Courvoisier’s Asia’s Regional
Meeting. Furthermore, I won substantial credibility as a young finance
controller, eliminating any doubts regarding my inexperience. This project
taught me how to propose complex ideas across business units and how
to work in a divided team; skills I later successfully applied as a market
leader of a global information system development project involving the
Asia regional project team, Indian IT consultants, and multinational sales &
marketing representatives. This experience also taught me that in order
to gain buy-in across an organization, I needed to consider problems from
an overall perspective and take initiatives to better understand my
counterparts. At times, my lack of management and leadership theory led
to difficulties explaining why this change would benefit everyone involved.
With broad interactions with experienced managers from all over the
world in an LBS Sloan classroom, I believe I can efficiently gain the
leadership and management I need to move forward.