The late 1800s Dynasty: my ancestor, the businessman Minsoo Kim,
actively promoted Western technology to save Korea from destitution.

His legacy of innovation and change lives through me. Today, I am a
finance controller at Dom Perignon (DP), pushing changes and creating
value. With broad industry knowledge gained from my experience at BCG,
I defined the KPI’s of DP’s logistics service provider in contract
negotiations, resulting in annual cost-savings of USD100K+. My passion
for the wine industry stemmed from my first auditing project at Redfoot
Wines and the more I explored this business, the better I understood that
wines represent their home cultures, inspiring communication among
people. My ancestor’s legacy and my passion for brands have shaped my
ambition to become a Chief Financial Officer (CFO) in the wine industry
and contribute to the popularization of Korean brands.

Rising to my current position in only 7 years, I began my ascent in Seoul
with a disheartened finance team suffering from a heavy workload and
skeptical veterans in sales/marketing who doubted this inexperienced
young woman’s ability to handle tough situations. By reallocating job
functions and building a detailed career plan for each team member, I
boosted morale and we succeeded in supporting our business’ expansion
with an average annual profit growth rate of 40%+ from 2010 to 2012. I
also won credibility by tweaking existing operation procedures, in
collaboration with colleagues representing 7 countries, resulting in
operational improvements reducing monthly staff over-time by 200
hours, earning a top performance rating based upon my proven
performance for 2011 after only 14 months.

These projects have provided leadership experience and the confidence to
become a business leader. From public accountant to compliance
manager, to Finance Manager and now as finance controller, I now intend
to step into the position of Finance Director of a leading Asian beverage
company like Tsingtao. To succeed, I need to develop my knowledge of
advanced corporate finance, marketing and management, along with my
strategic vision, presentation skills and network.

LBS Sloan is my best choice to gain these skills in a short timeframe. The
specific tools and knowledge imparted by Advanced Corporate Finance,
World Economy Problems and Prospects, and Corporate Strategy, will
strengthen my expertise in corporate finance and provide an
understanding of macroeconomic environments and strategy
development, which I currently lack. The International Assignment
Project’s experiential learning provides opportunities to test new ideas to
bring the most effective ones to fruition. Furthermore, LBS’ strong and
diverse international ties are critical to my aspiration to propel the
globalization of Korean and Chinese spirits. Finally, the lively student-
professor interaction I observed in Professor Conger’s Essentials of
Leadership class and the engaging conversation I shared with students
have fueled my enthusiasm and desire to join their ranks.

120 years ago, Minsoo Kim introduced western technology into classical
Korea, initiating industrialization. His long-lasting influence shows me that
business’ impact can mean more than just money. With my passion for
the spirits industry, I am eager to create my own legacy with the help of
LBS.