I would kick off my free time by going to the next restaurant on my “to
eat” list. During my childhood, the delicious smells emanating from my
grandmother’s stove got me hooked on cooking. Inspired by the TV show
“Chef Patel,” I often spent Sundays in college organizing “cook-offs” with
my hallmates. In New York, friends would call to ask for restaurant
recommendations, and my vivid descriptions of dessert recipes even
convinced one to become an avid baker.

Earlier this year, I spearheaded the Culinary Series at the India Institute.
Realizing food is a great medium through which to share culture, the goal
was simple: give prospective members the opportunity to enjoy Indian
cuisine, while educating them on the important historical, cultural, and
social influences behind the food. For the kickoff event, I visited several
Indian restaurants in the city, and reached a deal with a Food Network
featured restaurant, negotiating down the cost for our event by offering
to connect them with food bloggers and marketing contacts that I knew.

To plan the budget, my team focused on maximizing profits. However, I
spoke with the India Institute Senior Directors, and discovered that their
main objective was actually increasing membership. Subsequently, I
decided to lower ticket prices by 25%; this not only drew more people to
the event, increasing membership after two years of no growth, but also
won us more funding from the Senior Directors going forward.

After scouting out my potential next restaurant for the Culinary Series, I
would go swim another set of laps in the pool. At age fourteen I still
didn’t know how to swim, but was up for a challenge – literally being
thrown into the water when I joined Thompson’s Gator Swim Club. As I
struggled to learn flip turns my first season, a trail of white water clouded
my view as other swimmers, most two or three years younger than I,
sprinted by. During weekend swim meets, the crowd admired the
accomplished swimmers who raced ahead of me, but by the time I swam,
spectators had made their way to the food stand. Beyond this first lane, I
watched former Olympic Coach Thompson pushing along his promising
young athletes.

To improve faster, I attended 5am morning practices. As the only junior
member, it was a rare opportunity to get personal attention from my
coach. Sometimes, we reviewed videotapes of my swimming to work on
technique. Other times, I practiced diving into the water through foam
“noodles” that were formed into rings. By the end of these practices, my
stomach would be red from the belly flops.
However, the hard work paid off: by senior year, I was Captain of the high
school Varsity Team, was awarded Bay State Conference All-Star, and
qualified for the State Competition. Swimming taught me invaluable
lessons about hard work and determination, propelling me to succeed as a
small fish in the large Wharton undergrad and Wall Street ponds. Jumping
back into the pool never fails to bring back my childhood moments and
fuel me to succeed.