Talk about dirty business!

Two years ago, to help evaluate the Indian market for a hazardous waste
disposal company, I took on the murky world of Indian wastemanagement. Speaking to over a hundred technicians, dischargers,
regulators and disposers, I finished a comprehensive report, working 14
hours a day for 9 weeks. To my astonishment, millions of tons of
hazardous waste were being dumped in India without any proper
oversight. Most government officials knew nothing of this, because the
culprits always concealed their crimes.

I didn’t wait for things to change: instead I decided to be the one to
change them. First I reached out to my friends at Green Feather, an
environmental NGO, who informed me that the government was planning
to correct this regulatory blind spot but that the process was agonizingly
slow. Next I convinced an environmental journalist to help send my
research to the related officials, who then invited me to give suggestions
on how to craft the legislation.

After months of investigation and discussion, the government finally
published a series of targeted regulations to strengthen the disposal of
hazardous waste. This accomplishment not only opened a new market
opportunity worth US$11 billion for the company we were investing in,
but also ensured the health and safety of millions of people.

When the 2008 West Bengal floods hit, I made it my mission to help local
children in need. Instead of donating money to the Red Cross as
expected, I organized a team of 20 employees to provide tents and
supplies to a remote school. As an international team stretching across
India, The United Kingdom, Singapore and America, we arrived at the
school as the first external volunteers, even when the local infrastructure
had not fully recovered.

Our efforts paid off when we saw the children’s smiles. With enough tents
to sleep in, they could resume schooling the next day using the books and
stationeries we brought. I also taught them an original song during a
music lesson, one telling them to be brave in the face of challenges.

This experience taught me that giving money never replaces direct help.
More importantly, my actions changed someone’s life - years later, some
of these kids wrote to tell me that they’d successfully been admitted to a
top local high school and that my example inspired them to give back to
society in the future, the same way I did.